Performance Testing is a software testing process used for testing the speed, response time, stability, reliability, scalability and resource usage of a software application under particular workload. The main purpose of performance testing is to identify and eliminate the performance bottlenecks in the software application. It is a subset of performance engineering and also known as “Perf Testing”.

Load Testing is a non-functional software testing process in which the performance of software application is tested under a specific expected load. It determines how the software application behaves while being accessed by multiple users simultaneously. The goal of Load Testing is to improve performance bottlenecks and to ensure stability and smooth functioning of software application before deployment.

Endurance Testing is non-functional type of software testing where a software is tested with high load extended over a significant amount of time to evaluate the behaviour of software application under sustained use. The main purpose of endurance testing is to ensure that the application is capable enough to handle extended load without any deterioration of response time.

Stress Testing is a type of software testing that verifies stability & reliability of software application. The goal of Stress testing is measuring software on its robustness and error handling capabilities under extremely heavy load conditi

Compatibility Testing is a type of Software testing to check whether your software is capable of running on different hardware, operating systems, applications, network environments or Mobile.
Usability Testing also known as User Experience(UX) Testing, is a testing method for measuring how easy and user-friendly a software application is. A small set of target end-users, use software application to expose usability defects. Usability testing mainly focuses on user's ease of using application, flexibility of application to handle controls and ability of application to meet its objectives.

GUI Testing is a software testing type that checks the Graphical User Interface of the Software. The purpose of Graphical User Interface (GUI) Testing is to ensure the functionalities of software application work as per specifications by checking screens and controls like menus, buttons, icons, etc.

SECURITY TESTING is a type of Software Testing that uncovers vulnerabilities, threats, risks in a software application and prevents malicious attacks from intruders. The purpose of Security Tests is to identify all possible loopholes and weaknesses of the software system which might result in a loss of information, revenue, repute at the hands of the employees or outsiders of the Organization.

Retesting is a process to check specific test cases that are found with bug/s in the final execution. Generally, testers find these bugs while testing the software application and assign it to the developers to fix it. Then the developers fix the bug/s and assign it back to the testers for verification. This continuous process is called Retesting.

Regression Testing is a type of software testing executed to check whether a code change has not unfavourably disturbed current features & functions of an application.
