1. Feature: Test the drop down display per page
   Background: Given display button option for drop down menu
	       And should be able to change number for display view.				
   Scenario: Click on display button for drop down option
             When user click the display drop down button    
             And display should show drop down option 
             Then User should be able to change number of view to see the page.
 

2. Feature: Test the search box
   Background:Given the search box to find the product
	      And it should navigate to the product page 	 
   Scenario:By typing into the search box it should navigate to product page which user looking for.
            When typing into the search box
            And click on the search icon
            Then it should navigate to specific product page.   

3. Feature: Test the link Add to Cart
   Background: Given The Add to cart button link
	       And the link should add item into shopping basket.
   Scenario: By clicking on Add to Cart link it should add iteam in the shopping basket for payment.
             When click on Add to Cart link
	     And it should add iteam in shopping basket.	
             Then user should either add another iteam 
             But User can also proceed for payment.

4. Feature: Test the Link Book Categories
   Backgrond: Given to click the Link Book 
              And it should navigate to Book Categories
   Scenario: By Clicking the link Book it should navigate to other page 
             When click the link on Book
             Then it should navigate to page of Book Categories
             


5. Feature: Test the product link (Lenovo)
   Background:Given to click the product link
              And it should open new page with all specification details of product.
   Scenario: By clicking the product link should open new page with all specification details of product.
             When click on the product link
	     And it should take to next page of product description.
             Then user can see all product specification. 